The next set of optimization that we wanna
look at is we wanna look at this tree.
Here's our trie tree implementation
that we've been working with.
We wanna think about our
trie tree implementation and
realize it does seem like there's a fair
bit of kind of wasted space in this tree.
Look at all these extra nodes that are
being created here that aren't there for
any other purpose other than that's the
structure of a trie tree is that it goes
one letter at a time.
In our particular dictionary case,
we're not a child on top of those, so
those are kind of wasted nodes.
You might think about it as, well,
I could construct the trie tree but
then go back and compact that trie
tree and save a whole bunch of memory.
Because I'm likely to have, on average,
quite a few of these nodes that are just
hanging out with no reason to be there.
They're intermediary nodes
with no reason to be there.
It turns out there is an actual term for
these kinds of trees
that have been compacted.
A trie tree that has been compacted
is referred to as a radix tree.
So the way the compaction worked as
you can see is that we just took
the internal nodes,
combine them into one connection and
then made that connection the augmentation
of all of the intermediate states.
So that LAP, for example there,
LAP took the place of
the nodes that were L,
A and P separately, right?
So at each one of these levels now,
instead of only having single letters,
we can also have multi-letter combinations
as the children, as the end point.
You wouldn't construct your tree this
way cuz you couldn't possibly know in
advance where those would need to be.
So you would construct a trie tree
with single letters and then run
an optimization step to effectively
compress the tree down into this format.
So that would end up saving
potentially a significant
amount of memory usage of your trie tree.
In the case of doing
something like autocompletes,
that ends up being a pretty effective
technique because you don't lose anything.
You haven't lost any information.
You still know the words,
you just do a lot less traversing.
It's faster and uses a lot less memory.
So most of the time, a production
implementation would construct a trie
tree and then compress it into
something like this radix tree.
Unfortunately for us,
the way our algorithm works,
a radix tree would not be
the right data structure.
It would significantly
complicate our algorithm and
we would lose most of the performance
benefit that we wanted.
So I only wanted to show you that
something like this exists and
when you Google around, you'll find them.
But in our particular exercise,
this is not the right data structure.
And had we chosen this, we would have
ended up beating our head against why is
this so hard, and why doesn't it work and
why is it not very performing?
The reason why it would be difficult
is because at every level,
we currently take advantage of the fact
that we can take a single letter
out of our remaining letters and find
a child node or not find a child node.
Here, we would actually need to enumerate
all of the children of every node to see
if there were any matches.
Cuz that would end up creating a whole
lot extra performance overhead and
complication.
However, there are other data
structures and we have now,
without possibly even some of you
realizing it, we just made a giant leap.
Actually, kind of a tiny leap
from tree data structures
into graph data structures.
Why is this a graph data structure?
Well, you can easily see that
it's a graph data structure
because you have one or
more nodes that have more than one parent.
The H node has two parents.
It has the C parent and
it has the A parent.
That's what lets you know this is
a graph instead of a tree, okay?
This is referred to as, actually,
it goes by a couple of different names.
The first place that I found
it was under the name DAFSA,
D-A-F-S-A which stands for
Directed Acyclic Finite State Automaton.
So that's a whole bunch of really
fancy sounding computer science terms.
Go back to your co-workers the next
time you're at your work and say,
I learned about directed
acyclic finite state automata,
and they'll probably buy you a free lunch,
right?
Because that's gonna
sound really impressive.
It's not quite as impressive as it sounds,
but it sounds good.
The other way of referring
to these is DAWG,
D-A-W-G, Directed Acyclic Word Graph.
And I like that name a lot better cuz
that speaks to what we're creating here.
We're creating a word graph.
This Directed Acyclic Word Graph is,
you see how it looks a lot smaller?
It's doing the kind of compaction
that a radix tree does, but
it does it in a different way.
Instead of removing nodes, it creates
these extra graph links within the tree.
So we get the compaction of memory usage,
but we still get the properties that
we're going to be able to traverse
this in a similar way to the way
that we were traversing a trie tree.
It's not exactly the same cuz there are
complexities in graphs, you have to worry
about getting into loops and, I mean,
into cycles and things like that.
But it ends up significantly reducing the
memory footprint of the data structure,
and we'll see that in a moment.
And it ends up creating a pretty
significantly performance implementation.
Maybe not quite as nice as the trie tree,
but
a very performance of limitation and
much better in memory.
So it ends up creating for us
a potentially a better balance than what
we saw a few iterations back with
the trie tree implementation that we did.
This one shifts the balance a little
bit and makes better usage of memory.
It pays a little bit more up front.
A directed acyclic word graph is a much
more complex data structure to create.
And we are not going to learn
the algorithms of compaction that end up
creating all these links.
Those algorithms are significantly
out of scope for our discussion.
And also,
even if I taught them to you, it's so
complex that I would never recommend
writing this code yourself.
We have firmly crossed into the area
where you wanna use a known and
battle-tested library to do this.
And I have included for
you an implementation of this from
a library called Minimal Word Graphs.
That's a library that I found out there,
and
I've included an implementation of that,
and that's what we're gonna use.